Project 3/project3.md, before:

## TO DO LIST ##
* Data Pre Propcessing 
    - A better approach is to sample according to the conditional probabilityof the values occurring, given the underlying class for that example. The choice of strategy is yours,but be sure to document your choice
<<<<<<< HEAD:Project 3 /project3.md 
    - Normalization of data to be on (-1, 1) Z scores 
=======
    - Normalization of data to be on (-1, 1) [Claire, Due 10/23]
* Base Python File Set-Up []
* Pseduocode for Hidden Nodes Tuning Process [All, Discuss 10/23]
>>>>>>> 180139becfbd8b75f6281ef70bd0eff7ecc27e2d:Project 3 /project3.md
    - You will need to determine the number of hidden nodes per layer via a tuning process
* Pseudocode for MLP (multi layer feedforward network with backpropogation) [All, Discuss 10/23] 
    -  arbitrary number of inputs, an arbitrary number of hidden layers, an arbitrary numberof hidden nodes by layer, and an arbitrary number of outputs
<<<<<<< HEAD:Project 3 /project3.md 
    -  (OLIVIA) Be able to specify whether a node uses a linear activation function for regression or a sigmoidal activation function for classification (you may choose between logistic or hyperbolic tangent) 
* A hypothesis focusing on convergence rate and final performance
* Test MLP Algorithm 
* Paper (OLIVIA)
=======
* Define Regression and Clasification Functions 
    -  (OLIVIA) Be able to specify whether a node uses a linear activation function for regression or a sigmoidal activationfunction for classification (you may choose between logistic or hyperbolic tangent) 
* Develop hypothesis focusing on convergence rate and final performance [All, Discuss 10/23]
* Implement MLP Algorithm 
* Paper 
>>>>>>> 180139becfbd8b75f6281ef70bd0eff7ecc27e2d:Project 3 /project3.md
* Video

Commit message:

Added info about how data was pre-processed / will be pre-processed

Project 3/project3.md, after:

## TO DO LIST ##
* Data Pre Propcessing 
    - A better approach is to sample according to the conditional probabilityof the values occurring, given the underlying class for that example. The choice of strategy is yours,but be sure to document your choice
<<<<<<< HEAD:Project 3 /project3.md 
    - Normalization of data to be on (-1, 1) Z scores 
	1. Data sets were transferred to CSV Files. Attribute Columns were named based off appropriate naming given in the .names file and class columns were renamed to 'Class' for easy access.
	2. All missing attribute information were randomly assigned (insert statment about how few missing attributes and how it is nominal)
	3. All Attribute values were transferred into Z-Scores
		a) All values for an attribute are assessed; mean and standard deviation are found
		b) using the mean, standard deviation and number of observations, the Z-score is calculated (insert traditional Z-score calc)
=======
    - Normalization of data to be on (-1, 1) [Claire, Due 10/23]
* Base Python File Set-Up []
* Pseduocode for Hidden Nodes Tuning Process [All, Discuss 10/23]
>>>>>>> 180139becfbd8b75f6281ef70bd0eff7ecc27e2d:Project 3 /project3.md
    - You will need to determine the number of hidden nodes per layer via a tuning process
* Pseudocode for MLP (multi layer feedforward network with backpropogation) [All, Discuss 10/23] 
    -  arbitrary number of inputs, an arbitrary number of hidden layers, an arbitrary numberof hidden nodes by layer, and an arbitrary number of outputs
<<<<<<< HEAD:Project 3 /project3.md 
    -  (OLIVIA) Be able to specify whether a node uses a linear activation function for regression or a sigmoidal activation function for classification (you may choose between logistic or hyperbolic tangent) 
* A hypothesis focusing on convergence rate and final performance
* Test MLP Algorithm 
* Paper (OLIVIA)
=======
* Define Regression and Clasification Functions 
    -  (OLIVIA) Be able to specify whether a node uses a linear activation function for regression or a sigmoidal activationfunction for classification (you may choose between logistic or hyperbolic tangent) 
* Develop hypothesis focusing on convergence rate and final performance [All, Discuss 10/23]
* Implement MLP Algorithm 
* Paper 
>>>>>>> 180139becfbd8b75f6281ef70bd0eff7ecc27e2d:Project 3 /project3.md
* Video
